# Basic workflow

The `editables` project is designed to support *build backends*, allowing them
to declare what they wish to expose as "editable", and returning a list of
support files that need to be included in the wheel generated by the
`build_editable` [backend hook](https://peps.python.org/pep-0660/#build-editable).
Note that the `editables` library does not build wheel files directly - it
returns the content that needs to be added to the wheel, but it is the build
backend's responsibility to actually create the wheel from that data.

## Create a project

The first step is for the backend to create an "editable project". The project
name must follow the normal rules for Python project names from
[PEP 426](https://peps.python.org/pep-0426/#name).

```python
project = EditableProject("myproject")
```

## Specify what to expose

Once the project has been created, the backend can specify which files should be
exposed when the editable install is done. There are two mechanisms currently
implemented for this.

### Adding a directory

To make all modules in a particular directory (typically the project's "src"
directory) visible at runtime, simply call the `add_to_path` method

```python
project.add_to_path("src")
```

This is a simple wrapper over looping over `src/*.py src/*/` and calling the
code in the next section.

### Adding a directory as package content

To expose a directory as a package, call the `add_to_subpackage` method, giving
the package name to use, and the path to the directory containing the contents
of that package.

For example, if the directory `src` contains a package `my_pkg`, which you want
to expose to the target interpreter as `some.package.my_pkg`, run the following:

```python
project.add_to_subpackage("some.package", "src")
```

Note that everything in the source directory will be available under the given
package name. Restrictions have been relaxed in version 0.6, and the source
directory can now optionally contain an `__init__.py`, which will be loaded.

Be careful if the target (`some.package` here) is an existing package that is
already part of your editable wheel. Your build backend should create a separate
directory like `setuptools`'s `build/`, or store intermediate files in memory
like `wheel.wheelfile` does. Back up to Git, then ensure that none of your
`*.py` get overwritten by a bad build backend.

Don't redundantly add a parent package that already contains a file named like
`othersrc/package/__init__.py` via
`project.add_to_subpackage("some", "othersrc")`, or our `src` will be ignored as
we implement the redirection via `package.py` but `othersrc/package/__init__.py`
takes precedence.

This is a wrapper for `project.map("some.package", "src/__init__.py")`, but
`src/__init__.py` need not exist.

# Mapping individual files/packages

To expose a single `.py` file as a module, call the `map` method, giving the
name by which the module can be imported, and the path to the implementation
`.py` file. It *is* possible to give the module a name that is not the same as
the implementation filename, although this is expected to be extremely uncommon.

```python
project.map("module", "src/module.py")
```

To expose a directory with an `__init__.py` file as a package, the `map`
method is used in precisely the same way, but with the directory name:

```python
project.map("mypackage", "src/mypackage")
```

As of 0.6: Omitting the `__init__.py` is now supported, and it will considered a
package with an empty `__init__.py` file. Subpackages i.e. dotted names are now
supported, in addition to the previous top-level names.

See the "Implementation Details" section for more information. This method
requires no runtime support. Since all methods now wrap this method, none of our
methods require runtime support anymore.

## Build the wheel

### Files to add

Once all of the content to expose is specified, the backend can start building
the wheel. To determine what files to write to the wheel, the `files` method
should be used. This returns a sequence of pairs, each of which specifies a
filename, and the content to write to that file. Both the name and the content
are strings, and so should be encoded appropriately (i.e., in UTF-8) when
writing to the wheel.

```python
for name, content in my_project.files():
    wheel.add_file(name, content)
```

Note that the files to be added must be included unchanged - it is *not*
supported for the caller to modify the returned content. Also, it is the
caller's responsibility to ensure that none of the generated files clash with
files that the caller is adding to the wheel as part of its own processes.

### Runtime dependencies

No runtime dependencies are required as of 0.6. Please replace all calls to
`my_project.dependencies()` with `[]`.
